There are four big challenges when using relational databases.
First, throughput and performance.
Can your database deployment keep up with the amount of queries and
data that has to move in and out of the system?
Can the database engine handle your data growth?
Next, data preservation.
How does your database mitigate hardware failure so you don't lose any data?
What about human error?
If someone accidentally deletes something,
how easy is it to restore to a point in time before they deleted the data?
Third, finding the right resources to optimize your database administration.
Is your database engine so specialized that it's
hard to find people to support it?
How long does it take to train someone to a level that
they are proficient with the technology?
Finally, cost.
What is the pricing model of your database?
Does it allow you to save money during slow usage periods?
Are there high upfront licensing costs?
From the available relational database engines,
you may not have seen Amazon Aurora before.
Let's get into what is different about Aurora and where it could be a good fit.
Amazon Aurora is a cloud‑native relational database,
meaning it was designed to solve the challenges we discussed on
the previous slide by leveraging cloud features.
For example, for read‑intensive applications,
Aurora can have up to 15 low‑latency read replicas
across three availability zones.
Each Aurora database instance can also handle up to 128 TB of database storage.
To make your data durable,
Aurora replicates six copies of your data across three
availability zones and continuously backs up data to S3.
You can also enable global database,
which allows a single Aurora database to span multiple AWS regions.
Aurora is MySQL or PostgreSQL compatible,
so there's no new language or specialized tools to learn.
Much of the database administration is built in and automatic,
so you won't need an army of DBAs just to keep the lights on.
Finally,
Aurora is about one‑tenth the cost of commercial databases
with similar performance and features.
You can also utilize Aurora Serverless, which automatically scales up
and down based on usage so you don't have to worry about over or underprovisioning your database instances.